



Supporting Usable Security UIs                                      M A Sasse
Internet-Draft                                                		  UCL
Intended status: Informational                               	 July 8, 2019
Expires: January 8, 2020


                Open Questions in Supporting Secure User Interactions
                   draft-sasse-smart-secui-questions-00

Abstract

   This document describes open questions in supporting usable security at the UI level, 
   as stimulated by the SMART themes of research. The questions are split into defining 
   a set of manageable security tasks for countering the most common attacks, and 
   the UI elements for signalling whether an intended action is secure. Once these
   have been defined, the question how these can be supported at the protocol level
   may be raised in another venue.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the provisions
   of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on January 9, 2020.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2017 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.
   
   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.



Sasse                 Expires January 8, 2020                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft                SECUI questions                 July 2020


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction to Usable Security UI . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
   2.  Questions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
     2.1.  A Vocabulary of Usable Security Properties . . . . . . . .  2
     2.2.  Usable Security basics and criteria . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
     2.3.  The role of trust signalling and UI indicators 
   3.  Acknowledgments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   4.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   Author's Address  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4

1.  Introduction to Usable Security and UI indicators

   In the current Internet environment, many attacks target end-users, 
   stealing credentials and information, or directing them to malicious sites.
   Current countermeasures consist of asking users to check a number of 
   security indicators before they proceed.  There is evidence from recent
   usable security research that this approach is not effective, because
   (1) current indicators are not reliable enough, (2) the security tasks
   created for users are difficult, time-consuming, disruptive and annoying. 
   This does not only mean that the security measures are not effective,
   but that users suffer from security fatigue and regard online security
   as an "impossible" task, which plays into the hands of the attackers.
 
   There is a consensus emerging among academic and industry researchers
   that we need to improve the technology to simplify security for users 
   and protect online activity more effectively.
   The development of manageable and widely applicable security tasks, and 
   widely recognised security indicators at UI level would be key steps 
   to moving on from this low point. Changes at the protocol level may 
   be needed to support these.


2.  Questions

   Security researchers and industry have developed many measures to counter
   the most common attacks on the Internet, such as phishing. But from usable 
   security research, there is ample evidence that people are not able and/or 
   do not want to perform the tasks that security experts have created - Google 
   researcher Emily Stark, for instance, recently coined the term "URLephant in 
   the room" to describe the fact that even if they were willing, users cannot
   reliably check URLs and detect the malicious ones 
   https://www.usenix.org/conference/enigma2019/presentation/stark. 
  

   User experience of impossible, effortful and security measures that often
   turn out to be ineffective is not only costly, but leads to negative feelings 
   and security fatigue, as described by NIST Human Factors Lead Mary Theofanos 
   (https://www.nist.gov/video/cybersecurity-fatigue).

   There needs to be more reliable detection and signalling of what is secure,
   and what is not. The question is how we bring security and usability knowledge 
   together to move on from the current state of affairs and create effective and 
   'doable' security.
      
   This document identifies some of the challenges and questions involved in
   delivering usable security solutions, as a starting point for discussion and 
   to scope out future research efforts within the SMART theme.





Sasse                	Expires January, 2020                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft                SECUI questions                 July 2019


2.1.  A Vocabulary of Usable Security and User Interactions

   In order to define the security tasks and UI elements, we will need to 
   develop  a unified vocabulary for describing attacks, security countermeasures,
   and corresponding users tasks and actions. Elements of this vocabulary will be 
   based on the ISO 9241 Usability Standard.

   The first question will be: how do we define "secure" and "usable",
   what criteria should have to be met for describing a user action as such?

2.2.  Usable Security Basics and Criteria

   
   When users do not follow security rules or make mistakes, the first response of 
   security experts is security awareness and education: they try to ‘fit the human 
   to the task’. But Human Factors Engineering research established decades ago that
   ‘fitting the task to the human’ whenever possible produces more effective outcomes
   and is more efficient. Security awareness and training cannot counteract impossible
   and effortful security tasks - thus usable needs to establish the "ground rules" for
   successful interaction.

   The ISO defines usability (ISO 9241- 11:2018) defines usability as 
   “The effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction with which specified users achieve 
    specified goals in particular environments.”

   The criteria by which usability is assessed are
   1. effectiveness: the accuracy and completeness with which specified users can achieve 
   specified goals in particular environments
   2. efficiency: the resources expended in relation to the accuracy and completeness 
   of goals achieved
   3. satisfaction: the comfort and acceptability of the work system to its users and 
   other people affected by its use. 

   From a practical point of view, making security tasks ‘fit’ or ‘usable’ means establishing 
   a fit with 4 key elements (Sasse, Brostoff & Weirich 2001):

   1. the capabilities and limitations of the target users
   2. the goals those users have, and the tasks they carry out to achieve them
   3. the physical and social context of use, and
   4. the capabilities and limitations of the device on which the security mechanism 
   is used.
   
   These four elements set the constraints for the performance of the user.
   The challenge for usable security is that security is a secondary task - user 
   attention is focused on the primary task, and competition for resources will 
   almost always lead to the security task being 'squeezed out'.

   The second question thus is: what is the set of manageable security tasks users
   can perfrom to counter common threats in online interactions?




Sasse                       Expires July 8, 2020                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft                SECUI questions                 	July 2019


2.3.  The role of trust signalling

   Users interacting with technology are not trying to avoid risks altogether,
   so creating security mechanisms that stop them from encountering any risk
   would not be usable, and also economically ruinous. Equally ruinous would be
   have to  expend significant time and effort on every single transaction to assess 
   whether it is secure - trust is a "shortcut" mechanism for conducting a full
   risk-benefit assessment before deciding whether to go ahead.
   Empirical economics research on trust has shown that for marketplaces to function
   long-term, people need to be able place their trust correctly, and have confidence
   in their ability to do so.

   To help users need reliable indicators. For instance, people trust a transaction
   partner who has proved reliable in the past. Attackers exploit this through mimicry
   attacks - pretending to be a website or email correspondent the user knows.  
   Detecting impersonation is currently requires too much effort - users need
   reliable, quick warning if emails or websites they often use actually come from
   different sources. Another useful indicator would be if characteristics of an 
   an established transaction partner change (e.g. their location changes, or their
   transaction volume increases or decreases significantly). Trust signalling on
   the Internet currently relies on trust symbols established by a number of schemes.
   These are not secure because symbols are easily copied and subverted, and not usable
   because users expect far more protection than they are able to offer.

   The third question: how can we establish reliable trust signals?

2.4 UI Elements

   Users need a small number of UI elements representing security properties they
   can understand and trust.  So rather than a myriad of trust symbols, they need
   consistent indicators representing a small set of relevant properties.

   TBA

   The fourth question is: what UI elements can be used to signal whether security
   properties are met?




Sasse                 	Expires January 8, 2020                 [Page 4]

Internet-Draft                SECUI questions                 July 2019


3.  Acknowledgments

   Many thanks to members of the UK RISCS Community (www.riscs.org) and
   the Human Factors Division of NIST, especially Mary Theofanos, Kirsten
   Greene, Michelle Steves and Brian Stanton, who have collaborated with 
   the author over the past decade and shaped the development of these ideas.
   This work is partially supported by the UK National Cyber Security Centre 
   (NCSC) which co-funds the RISCS Project.

4.  Normative References

   ISO 9241-11:2018 Ergonomics of human-system interaction. 
   https://www.iso.org/standard/63500.html 

Author's Address

   M. Angela Sasse
   Department of Computer Science
   UCL
   Gower Street
   London WC1E 6BT
   UK

   Email: a.sasse@ucl.ac.uk



















Trammell                 Expires April 27, 2018                 [Page 5]
